population --> entire group for evaluating 
sample ---> specific group for collecting data from 
sample size < total size of population
Reasons for sampling :
1) Necessity : not possible to study the whole population due to its size or inaccessibility.
2) Practically : easier and more efficient to collect data from a sample .
3) Cost-effectiveness : fewer participant , laboratory , equipment  and researcher costs involved 
4) Manageability: Storing and running statistical analyses on smaller datasets is easier and reliable.

Changes in measure of spread :
1) on changing our dataset from a population to a sample ,
Our formulas for calculating variance and standard deviation also change.

while calculating sample standard deviation , we divide  by n-1 instead of N.

When we calculate the sample standard deviation we tend to underestimate the true variability in the population.\
Our estimate of teh true population standard deviation is biased .

to correct the bias we divide by n-1.

to make the sample standard deviation an unbiased estimate of the population sd.

why only n-1:

this is because by using n-1 in the bumerator in the formula to calculate variance and standard deviation 
will not be affected drastically.

Another reason why statisticians decided to use n-1 was because of "degree of freedom".

what is degree of freedom ?

1) cookies --> 5 , friends --> 5 friends got a choice to select a cookie

Inter Quartile Range :

The interquartile range defines teh difference between the third and the first quartile.
Quartiles are partitioned values that divide the whole series into 4 equal parts .

Q1----> First quartile (lower) 
Q2 ----> Second quartile 
Q3 -----> Third Quartile (upper ) 

Interquartile range formula :
1) The difference between the upper and the lower quartile is known as the interquartile range .
2) The formula for the interquartile range is given below :
interquartile range = Upper quartile - Lower Quartile = Q3-Q1

where Q1 is the first quartile and Q3 is teh third quartile of teh series.

calculating :
1) Arrange into increasing and decreasing order 
2) count the given values. if odd, center value is median otherwise obtain the mean value for the two center values.
this is known as Q2 value  , if even number of values , the median will be teh average of teh middle 2 values.

Median equally cuts the given values into two equal parts.They are described as Q1 and Q3 parts .
The median data values below the median represents Q1
median data values above teh median value represents Q3.

We can subtract the median values of Q1 and Q3.

resulting valiue is the interquartile range .

higher quartile - lower quartile = inter quartile range 

Semi interquartile range :

1) half of the iqr.
2) 1/2 the difference between teh 75th percentile and the 25th percentile.
3) semin interquartile range  = (Q3-Q1)/2

need of IQR:

1) IQR is utilized to calculate outliers in a datset .
2) Formula for calculating outliers :
  1) Outliers < Q1-(1.5 * IQR)
  2) Outliers > Q3-(1.5*IQR)
  
  Box-Plots :
A box-plot is used to display teh five number summary of a dataset.
In a boxplot, we draw from teh first quartile to the third quartile .
A vertical line goes through teh box at teh median.
The whiskers go from each quartile to the minimum or maximum.

