Image Embedding :

inputs :
images : list of images 

outputs:
1) Embeddings: Images represented with a vector of numbers.
2) skipped images : List of images where embeddings were not calculated 
Image Embedding : reads images and uploads them to remote server or evaluate them locally.
Deep learning models are used to calculate a feature vector for each image . It returns an enhanced data table 
with additional columns(image descriptors).

what is image recognition ?
it is trained on the ImageNet dataset.

what is the activation of the penultimate layer of the model ,which represents images with vectors ?

actual meaning of image embedding :
Embedding is the process of converting the high-dimensional data to low-dimensional data in the form of a vector 
in such a way that the two are semantically similar.

"embedding" refers to an extract(portion) of anything.
embedding improve the effeciency and usability of machine learning models and can be utilised  with other types 
of models as well.
When dealing with massive amounts of data to train,building machine learning models is a nuisance.

Basic purpose of embedding :
DNN can be trained to generate embeddings and then utilised to build another embedding for a different set of data 
Embeddings of neural networks are advantageous because they can lower the dimensionality of categorical 
variables 

basic purposes exist for neural network embeddings:
1) embedding space's nearest neighbours.These can be used to provide suggestions based on the users interests 
or cluster classifications.

2) As input to a machine learning model for the purpose of performing a supervised task.

3) For the purpose of visualising concepts and the relationships between the categories.

Benefits of Embedding :
1) filter mechanism in a recommmendation system.
purpose of the item simalrity use cases is to aid in the develoopment of such systems.
Another goal is to keep data as simple as possible for training and prediction.

Text Embedding :
block converts a string of characters to a vector of real values.
